
Thank you for your interest in Xic and/or WRspice from Whiteley
Research Inc.

Attached to this message is your LICENSE file.  This file will enable
Xic (and XicII, Xiv, see below) and WRspice for a 1-month period.

The program distribution files and full instructions can be obtained
from http://wrcad.com.  Click on the "Distribution Archive" and then
the "Binary Distribution Repository" links.  When prompted, use your
key as the "user" name, and your password given above.  SAVE YOUR
PASSWORD and key in a safe place, you will need these to visit the
repository.

After entering the repository, the page provides complete installation
instructions, and links to the programs.  Follow the link to your
operating system type, and click on the file names to download.  You
may have to use some option or method particular to your browser to
initiate downloading.

Your mail program should decode the attachment to this email into a
file named "LICENSE".  If the mail program changes the name for some
reason (some old Windows mail programs would do this), the name should
be returned to "LICENSE" by hand.

The LICENSE file is a binary file and may be corrupted if transferred
between systems using ftp in ASCII mode (for example).

The license enables the full Xic functionality.  If you wish to
restrict the features to XicII or Xiv, so as to correspond to an
actual license for those products, you should set the environment
variables FORCE_XICII or FORCE_XIV before running the xic executable.

If any questions, problems, or feedback of any sort, please feel free
to contact me.

Regards,

Steve Whiteley
Whiteley Research Inc. (http://wrcad.com)
stevew@wrcad.com
(408) 735-8973


