
-----------------------------------------------------------------

 HTTPGET and LIBHTTPGET Library
 original release: 10/22/01
 current release: 8/15/05 (2.18)

-----------------------------------------------------------------
$Id: README,v 1.1 2008/05/08 04:59:32 stevew Exp $
-----------------------------------------------------------------

This distribution contains the httpget program, which is used to
retrieve files via HTTP or FTP protocol, and to post HTTP queries.

This is similar to the httpget program supplied with the XmHTML widget
by Ripley Software Development (http://www.xs4all.nl/~ripley/XmHTML),
with a few additions:

    1) Support for FTP file retrieval.
    2) Optional graphical window for status reporting.
    3) Support for POST queries.
    4) Support for HTTP basic authentication.
    5) Support for transaction logging.
    6) Conversion to C++ and (hopefully) useful classes.

The workings have been packaged into a library, libhttpget, which can
be incorporated into other programs to provide in-process support for
httpget-type functionality.

Httpget is a command-line utility for retrieving files and posting
queries to a remote HTTP or FTP server.  It can be used, for example,
from within a shell script to automate a software update.

The httpget program is invoked with

    httpget [options] url

where the options are listed below, and the url is a standard-syntax
universal resource locator, i.e., a web address of a file, in a form
like [http://]server/[document] or ftp://host/file.  The url should
contain the http:// or ftp:// prefix to indicate HTTP or FTP protocol,
respectively.  If no protocol is given, HTTP is assumed.  The options
are:

  -c file    Name of a cookie file. If not given no cookies are sent.
             Cookies will be stored in and dispatched from this file,
             during the transaction, if given.

  -d         Enable HTTP debug mode, by enabling printing of extra
             status messages during the transaction.

  -e         Don't reissue the request for HTTP location change error.
             Normal behavior if a 302 (location changed) response is
             received is to reissue the request to the new location.
             This option prevents this.

  -fp | -fh  Output format for errors: plain or HTML.  Error messages
             are in plain text by default, but can be HTML formatted
             if -fh is given.

  -g[x:y]    Use graphical window.  If the graphics support has been
             included in the build, this option pops up a window which
             provides status indication and a "stop" button. 
             Optionally colon-separated x/y root window coordinates
             can immediately follow, in which case the upper-left
             corner of the pop-up will be at that location, if allowed
             by the window manager.

  -h         Show help.  The program lists these options and exits.

  -i         Only get HTTP document info (HEAD).  The normal behavior
             is to retrieve the entire document.  This option obtains
             document parameters only.

  -l file    Log bytes sent and received in file.  The log file will
             contain a listing of the data transmitted and received.

  -n         Don't print download status indication.  Normal behavior
             is to print the number of bytes received.  This option
             suppresses this.

  -o file    Name of destination file on the local machine. If not
             given the standard output is used for HTTP and the host
             file name is used for FTP.

  Httpget supports basic authentication, so that pages can be retrieved
  from a server directory protected by this authentication method.

  -u user    User name for authentication.
  -p pass    Password for basic authentication.

  -q file    Query file for POST.  The file is uploaded to the server.

  The following two options set the time to wait for transmission.
  If contact is not achieved in the timeout interval, httpget will
  try again, up to the retry count.

  -r num     Retry count, default is 0.
  -t num     Timeout in seconds, default is 5.

  -s         Save HTTP error to output on failure.  The normal behavior
             is to emit errors to the standard error channel.  With this
             option, errors are directed to the output channel (to the
             file if the -o option is given).

  -x         Use HTTP error code as program exit value.


To build the library and executables, type:
    ./configure
    make
    make install

The generated Makefile may require tweeking for your particular
operating system.  The GTK defines are optional, and can be removed if
graphics support is not wanted.  The program is known to work under
Win32/mingw (without graphics).  It should build with little or no
modification on Unix/Linux systems.

The comm.cc/comm.h files implement a class for low-level interface
functions, such as managing the socket connections and transferring
blocks of data.  The transact.cc/transact.h files implement a class
which provides a higher level interface to the application.  The comm
methods will probably not be used directly by the application.  The
libhttpget library incorporates these two classes, and can be linked
with the user's application to provide the functionality of the
httpget program in-process.  The httpget program is just a wrapper
around the library.

Release 2.14 and later will build with gcc-3.x, earlier releases
require gcc-2.95.x (or some tweeking).

Feedback and bug reports should go to:

Steve Whiteley
Whiteley Research Inc.
stevew@wrcad.com

* * *

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
Library General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

====================================================================
CHANGES

Release 2.18

  - Added support for the QT toolkit.

Release 2.17

  - If an ftp transfer can not be initiated, a zero-byte outfile is
    no longer produced.  The file is created on the local machine
    only if something will be written, or the source file is actually
    empty.
  
  - If a transfer fails or is interrupted in non-graphics mode,
    an extra linefeed is output so that the prompt or error message
    is on a separate new line from the status messages.

